Science and Research (Research Experience)

Please describe your research experience in an essay, clearly indicating the significance, the aims and your contributions. In your essay, please include the following information:
Title of your research project
Type of your research (e.g. MSc thesis, BSc thesis)
Name of responsible research group leader/supervisor
Name of institution/department/university
Duration (please give start and end date)
If you have carried out research in addition to your thesis project, please describe it briefly in a separate paragraph.

Please do not exceed 1 x A4 page in length.

Since the end of 2009, I started at the Institute of Scientific Computing (IWR, TU Dresden) to work under the direction of Prof. Axel Voigt. My task was to simulate flows on surfaces and to verify the results. It quickly became apparent that the existing Navier Stokes Equations Finite Element Code for surfaces leads to incorrect results. At that time I knew nothing about mathematics on manifolds and that in general there do not hold differential equations that are designed for a flat metric.  So I started to specialize me in the differential calculus for curved spaces. This topic is highly theoretical and often impracticable for numerical computations. However, I found a formula for divergence-free flows on closed surfaces with Riemannian metric that could be discretized with the available resources. In a period of about 2 years I draw up the equations for, modified it for a FEM discretization, programmed this in C++ by taking advantage of the FEM Toolbox AMDiS. Simulation and validation of results were made in the field of super fluids (e.g. from pure geometry generated vortex traps), harmonic waves on rotating spheres and (by coupling with the Cahn-Hilliard equation) two-phase flows (e.g. growth dynamics of domains on membranes). The results were published in collaboration with Prof. Voigt and Prof. Wentsch.

Since the end of last year, I am working on a direct discretization of differential operators of the exterior algebra, i.e. for differential forms, at the IWR (Prof. Voigt). There is great hope that metric-independent formulations of differential equations can be solved numerical directly. First results are part of my diploma thesis. So far I have the FEM discretization in AMDiS replaced by an exterior calculus discretization for (vectorized) scalar problems on two-dimensional surfaces. Thus, even simple problems could be solved, such as heat equation or approximation of the second fundamental form of the surface and the resulting curvatures.

Since 2012 I worked for 1 year at the Institute of Machine Tools and Control Engineering under the direction of Dr. Gunnar Dietz. There I developed several custom algorithms for regression and sensitivity analyzes. 
This I programmed and tested in Java and embedded it into a web-based commercial application (see http://www.symate.de/de/detact.html).

In a modeling seminar (1 semester), I also simulated cell structures on fruit fly wings (including cell growth, anisotropy and wing curvature).
